hey friends dr k here a lot of people
who watch our content
are looking to find their dharma or life
purpose
it's a real challenge because a lot of
times mental health problems like
depression and anxiety
are actually symptoms of lacking a good
meaning or a good purpose in life
this is something that people work on a
lot in group coaching to find their
dharma or to find their life purpose
if you're interested in that we still
have spots open it's 24
a session and sign up with the link in
the description below
hi dr k i'm a university student and i'm
doing well
good for you i wrote an academic
textbook wow
published scientific papers presented in
symposiums
doing well in my studies etc but i
recently got into an mba
and started focusing on other things
that are more into the nba studies
and stuff and i don't think i enjoy this
i have some amazing mentors in my
department as well they know me well and
they have helped me much
i'm always doing my best to make them
proud and not just them of course my
family as well
i do my best and work hard and that
pride they have for me brings me
happiness i'd say
by the way none of them is strict or
anything like that they're all super
chill
thanks for including that detail but
someone's been paying attention
to how we would interpret that earlier
sentence
so they've see this is fantastic like so
they're they're starting to understand
like
oh maybe you know maybe your parents are
hard on you but
i believe that recently i've been doing
some things that don't make me happy at
all and
increase my suffering making me want to
just stop and give up
one of these things is the mba which i
dislike greatly
instead i like to do other stuff with
the knowledge that i have like start
something online to help people and add
value to them
i'm just doing all these things to make
people proud try to show them
that i like this do my best for them but
not for me
i'm not sure if this is the main problem
if there's something behind that
or how i should think this through and
of course i don't feel like talking to
my mentors about this i just don't want
them to think that i'm not good enough
for their mentoring
it's just that it's a bit confusing in
my mind even while writing this to be
honest i'm not sure if you'll
answer or even see this but i guess i
can take my chances by posting
this here good job and taking a chance
and it's just that i'm trying to find
answers on what i should do next thanks
for your time
lots of respect for what you do and for
your community great
ps sorry for the long message okay so
this is a this is a very good um
great question okay so let's kind of go
through some of the components so
sometimes
we're like productive right like so
we're good so this person published an
academic textbook was like you know
presenting in symposiums
seems like they were having fun and then
they ended up
like you know getting an mba or getting
into an mba program and so they find
themselves in the mba program and
they're like i'm not really enjoying
this very much
not quite sure what to do i have a lot
of mentors my family supports me i enjoy
making them proud but sometimes i want
to give up i'm kind of confused about
what i want to do
so i guess this is a common question of
like you know sometimes like we'll do
well in undergrad
and we're like really doing a good job
and we're happy with ourselves we're
making people happy
and then we will enter graduate school
and things seem a little bit different
there
and so what's going on there sometimes
we feel like dropping out of graduate
school should we or should we not
it's a great question so let's kind of
unpack things one step at a time
so the first thing is that there are a
couple of
a couple of ways to look at it the first
is that you know what is it that you
dislike
so mba is masters in business business
administration
um so
the first question is like you know
but i believe that recently i've been
doing some things that don't make me
happy at all and increase my suffering
so then the question is like what is
that right so what is it that you
dislike about your program and
things that are making you unhappy so i
think that that's an important question
to ask
this person also has like some confusing
feelings like they say
um i'm not sure if this is the main
problem or if there's something behind
that
and of course i don't feel like talking
to my mentors about this i just don't
want them to think that i'm
not good enough for their mentoring and
the person even says that they're not
even like
people like that they wouldn't judge me
that way but i i feel that way
so i think there are a couple of
different things to dig into first is is
you know why
you don't want to talk to your mentors
like what is that feeling that's keeping
you from reaching out to them
second thing is like what is it that you
dislike about getting the mba
you know why was it sounds like you were
having fun earlier and you're not having
fun now
and as far as what to so i think some
amount of self-reflection and
exploration is
definitely a good idea you can certainly
talk to your mentors you can certainly
talk to your family members
you can also try you know talking to
coach or therapist all that good stuff
but i think that there are a couple of
important things to consider here the
first is that
you know how much of you making people
proud
drives what you do
and the second thing is even if it is a
big driver that's okay
if you don't enjoy being in the mba
program if it's not fun for you i'd say
the other thing so this is where things
change a little bit for like high
potential folks
so i'm gonna pull a little bit from like
other dimensions of stuff here okay
so generally speaking at healthy game
where we talk about you know trying to
find fulfillment and being productive
and being happy
oddly enough for this person we're not
going to talk about that i'd say if
you're suffering
okay so this is where what you need to
really think about doing is
reconceptualizing the mba like why did
you get it in the first place was it to
make people happy was it because it was
a good idea
because this person says that they want
to like help people and they want to
make the world a better place
so then the other way to view your
situation is like not how to find
happiness forget about happiness for a
second i know it sounds weird
but think about what your goals are what
you want to be in the world
and whether an mba will help you with
that
and even if you dislike it like do you
need to do it
so when we talk with our hypos it's kind
of bizarre because like what we really
do is change the
the the frame a little bit and this is
where like there are
times in my life where i didn't enjoy
being on 24-hour calls
but this is where dharma comes in
because remember that dharma is what
allows you to
sacrifice happiness and tolerate
suffering for like and still find peace
so what i would say to this person is
are the skills that you're
in like developing in the mba
are those going to be important things
for you to accomplish what you want to
in life
and if the answer to that question is
yes like maybe you need to stay in it
even if you're suffering
right like this is where you need to
take a step back and really think a
little bit about what you want to
accomplish
do you want to drop out and just like
start to help random people like
you can try to do that i mean it's not
you know that's one option
but it sounds like you've done a lot of
like academic work and you're trying to
expand
you know your skill set and you may not
enjoy it so it's not so much about
enjoyment for a lot of hypos it's not
about enjoyment it's about
worth value is it worth it for you to
spend generally speaking mba programs or
two years
is it worth it for you to suffer for two
years be in this scenario you know
for the sake of acquiring particular
skills to
equip you for the next phase down the
road
that's what i'd really encourage this
person to do right so understand a
little bit about why you got the mba in
the first place
understand a little bit about what you
dislike about it understand
why you're reluctant to talk to your
mentors i'd say definitely overcome that
and also talk to your mentors
because as someone who you know has
mentored medical students and
and psychology students and stuff like
that is very common for people in
graduate school to feel like they really
don't want to be there anymore
and that's where like one of the most
important things you can do if you're in
graduate school and you don't like being
there is reaching out for support
and seeing if there are people who can
be like hey man i felt the same way
you'd be surprised what your mentors may
say you know it's kind of like it's
tricky
so reach out to them and then ultimately
ask yourself
is it worth it right why did you get
into this and even if it sucks while
you're doing it is it worth it
i mean no one enjoys being on 24-hour
calls and like i still remember
you know i used to spend like weekends
like moonlighting at a hospital because
we were starting healthy gamer and we
needed a little bit of extra money and
you know i'd like kids to support and my
wife was getting an mba and like so it
was like okay so
this is like it sucks to spend you know
i'd work one week and then i'd like
spend the weekend working
a 48-hour shift at a hospital and then
like
i'd get like a half day sunday to kind
of rest and then my kids haven't seen me
so i get home after 48 hours in the
hospital i'm feeding him breakfast and
stuff and like
then like you sleep for a little while
and then monday morning rolls around
it's like another week of work
gg weekend and the question is is it
worth it right like that's the big
question
so if you guys are struggling with
something if something is is causing you
suffering you have to ask yourself like
is this a sacrifice that is worth it for
me to make
and if the answer is yes then like by
all means make the sacrifice and if the
answer is no
then try to go chase after happiness